Electrolysis is a technique extensively used in the chemical industry to obtain metals from its ores. Metals are electron-rich elements with an excellent reducing character. In contact with the atmosphere, they are found in nature in the form of ores, a mixture of oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Electrolysis can be used to return oxidized metals into their original metallic state. Here we will describe the electrolytic production of aluminum, and chlorine, as well as other applications of electrolysis such as the electrorefining of metals and metal plating.
Aluminum is a very abundant element on earth. Still, back in the 18th century, pure aluminum was a rare and expensive metal worth more than \$1000000 a pound. In nature, it is found in the form of an oxide, bauxite--the name of this mineral comes from a french region Le Baux, near Marseille in the south. This mineral is a mixture of aluminum oxide (called silica), mixed with iron oxide, silicon oxide, titanium oxide as well as other silicates.
However, the production of aluminum from bauxite was proven to be very difficult. In the late nineteenth century, a french and an American scientist independently developed an electrolytic method to produce aluminum, the Hall-Heroult. On one hand, bauxite cannot be electrolyzed in water as water is more reducing than aluminum and in an aluminum solution, water would electrolyze rather than aluminum. On the other hand, in order to electrolyze bauxite, it needs to be melted first in order for the ions to migrate in the electrolytic cell, and the melting point of this mineral is close to 2050$^{\circ}$C. The method consists first of the purification of aluminum oxide by treating bauxite with sodium hydroxide. The resulting sludge contains dissolved aluminum oxide that is then acidified with carbon dioxide. The resulting hydrated alumina is then treated with molten cryolite (\ce{Na3AlF6}) in order to reduce the melting point of the oxide to 1000$^{\circ}$C. The electrolysis of this melted mixture produces ultrapure--close to 100\% --aluminum, that deposits on the bottom of the cell, as Al is denser than the oxide mixture. In the cell, a large current flow of 250000A is applied to a series of graphite rods. Carbon dioxide forms in the anode.
Chlorine gas is used during sanitation for the disinfection of water. It is also used as a bleaching agent during the production of paper and in the manufacturing of many household cleaning products.  Several electrolytic cells are used for the production of chlorine. First, the Downs cell employs a mixture of melted sodium chloride and calcium chloride to produce gaseous chlorine and solid sodium as a byproduct. Calcium chloride reduces the melting point of sodium chloride (close to 800$^{\circ}$C) to 600$^{\circ}$C. The generated sodium--a very reactive metal--needs to be kept under oil to avoid its oxidation.
Chlorine can also be produced from brine, an aqueous solution of sodium chloride. In this process, sodium hydroxide contaminated with sodium chloride is produced as a byproduct. The mercury cell eliminated this problem hence producing cleaner sodium hydroxide. In this cell, mercury is used as the cathode for the electrolytic treatment of brine. In the anode, chlorine is generated. In the cathode, sodium is reduced instead of water, producing a solid solution of mercury and sodium that is then treated with water producing sodium hydroxide and hydrogen gas, while recovering mercury.
Other applications of electrolysis are the electrorefining of metals. Impure metals are often produced from the treatment of metal ores. A way to purify these is by using the impure slabs as anodes in electrolytic cells with an aqueous solution of the metal to be refined, where metals are dissolved into ions. Impurities and noble metals deposit on the bottom of the cell in the form of sludge. The cathode contains a slab of pure metals that grows as dissolved ions deposit in the pure metal slab forming an ultrapure metallic layer. Another useful electrolytic application is metal plating. For example, tin cans are made of tin-coated steel and car bumpers are often chrome-plated steep parts.
Metals can be plated by means of an electrolytic cell in which the metal to be plated is placed in the cathode and the liquid solution contains ions of the plating materials.
