We have that solutions are homogeneous mixtures in the form of only one visible phase. If we add an ionic solute to a solvent, the solute particles would break down into ions and these ions would be solvated by the solvent molecules. As such,  the solute in solution exists in a different state than the solid solute. We also have that a heterogeneous mixture would result from mixing sand and water. The particles of sand will suspend on the liquid but eventually, they will deposit on the bottom of the container. Between homogeneous and heterogenous mixtures we have colloids or \emph{colloidal dispersions}. Colloids are special types of homogeneous mixtures. Colloids are suspensions of two components that are indeed immiscible in a non-homogeneous way. Think for example of milk, which is a colloid containing small particles of fat and protein suspended in a liquid. The particles of fat are called the dispersed phase and the liquid matrix is called the dispersing medium. The suspended particles of a colloid are larger than the particles of a normal homogeneous solution. Also, and perhaps more importantly, the particles of a colloid can be separated and for example, by adding a few drops of lemon to a glass of milk you will be able to separate both the fat and the liquid. In contrast, solutions are made of inseparable components and the only way to separate the solvent and solute in a solution is by boiling it. Colloids are named depending on the nature of the dispersed and dispersant phases: aerosols (e.g. fog), foams (e.g. whipped cream), emulsions (e.g. mayonnaise), sols (e.g. milk of magnesia), and gels (e.g. jelly) are just a few examples of different types of colloids. How to differentiate a solution and a colloid? The Tyndall effect exposes the differences between solutions and colloids. A focused beam of light can easily pass through a solution as the particles of the solute are smaller than the light wavelength. Differently, when a colloid is exposed to the same light it will be scattered by the dispersed phase of the colloid which has a larger size. Therefore, you will be able to see the bean passing through the colloid. An example of the Tyndall effect is the scattering of light from the car headlights on a foggy day.
Many factors stabilize a colloid, allowing two very different phases to coexist. In particular, electrostatic repulsions are known to play a key role in colloidal stability, hence avoiding coagulation. Colloidal particles are electrically neutral. Still, when applying an electrical field experiment demonstrates that all particles migrate towards the same electrode. Hence, all particles seem to have the same electrical charge. How can these particles coexist together? Experiments indicate that colloidal particles can be surrounded by several layers of electrically charged particles. These layers can impede coagulation.
For example, colloidal particles can surround themself with a layer of positive particles, and at the same time, this positive layer surrounds with another layer of negative charges. This series of external layers of charged particles exert repulsion among colloidal particles avoiding coagulation.
Colloids can be destructed in a process called \emph{coagulaiton}, which can be accomplished either by heating or by adding an electrolyte. On one hand, heating increases the average speed of colloidal particles which helps coagulation. On the other hand, adding electrolytes impacts the charged, protective layer that stabilizes colloidal particles, hence inducing coagulation (e.g. think what happens when you add lemon juice to a glass of milk). An example of colloid coagulation happens when a river reaches the salty ocean depositing. Sea electrolytes help produce clay particles.  Similarly, electrostatic precipitators improve the air quality of industrialized cities by removing soot from smoke.

