The solubility of a solute in a solvent is the maximum amount of solute that one can dissolve in a solvent at a given temperature. Solubility is affected by the state of matter of the solute--solids dissolve differently than gases--and by temperature. The nature of the temperature impact depends on the nature and state of matter of the solute (see Figure \ref{Fig:Figure-Solubility-T}).
The temperature has a strong impact on the solubility of solids. On one hand, temperature speeds up the dissolution process so that solids dissolve more rapidly at higher temperatures. On the other hand, the amount of solid that can be dissolved in a solvent can increase or decrease with temperature, depending on the nature of the solid. The solubility of sugar increases with temperature. That means the higher temperature the more solute one can dissolve. However, solid solutes like \ce{Ce2(SO4)3} or \ce{Li2SO4} follow the opposite trend with lower solubility at higher temperatures. The change of solubility with temperature is more homogeneous for gases. We have that the solubility of gas solutes normally decreases with temperature (at least for low temperatures), that is, the higher the temperature the less amount of gas will be dissolved in a liquid. If you warm up a can of soda it goes flat as the gas comes out of the liquid--we call this desorption. 
Solubility changes with temperature have numerous applications in everyday life. For example, the decrease of gas solubility with temperature is responsible for the formation of boiler scale that occurs at the walls of kettles and industrial boilers. When increasing temperature, the solubility of carbon dioxide decreases, and this gas is released from water. To compensate for this effect, more carbon dioxide is absorbed in water leading to the formation of bicarbonate ions that can react with calcium leading to solid calcium carbonate, the boiler scale. Another example is thermal pollution. When water is used in cooling systems and returned to the rivers, it can be returned with higher temperatures. As the solubility of gases decreases with temperature, warm water floats on top of cold water and impedes access to oxygen.

