Titration curves look slightly different depending on the nature of the chemical to be titrated as shown in Figure \ref{Fig:Figure-Titration-curves}. When titrating a strong acid, the curve starts at an acidic PH and near the endpoint, PH rises sharply until reaching a plateau at a basic PH. The PH at the endpoint is neutral. When titrating a strong base, the curve starts at a basic PH, and near the endpoint, PH decreases sharply until reaching a plateau at an acidic PH. The PH at the endpoint is also neutral. The titration ends with a strong basic PH.
When titrating a weak acid, the curve starts at a high acidic PH, and near the endpoint, PH rises smoothly and not sharply until reaching a plateau at a low basic PH. The PH at the endpoint is basic and the difference between the initial and final plateaus is small. 
Finally, when titrating a weak base, the curve starts at a basic PH, and near the endpoint, PH  decreases smoothly and not sharply until reaching a plateau at an acidic PH. The PH at the endpoint is basic and the difference between the initial and final plateaus is small. 
For weak acids and bases, the location of the starting plateau depends on the equilibrium constant. For the titration of a weak acid, the plateau lowers as the acidity constant increases. In other words, stronger acids have a lower starting plateau, and stronger bases have a higher starting plateau. Still, the equivalence point does not depend on the nature of the acid but on the stoichiometry.
Overall, we have that the main difference between acid and base titration curves is the starting PH, whereas the difference between strong and weak titration curves is the PH at the equivalency point, being basic for weak acids and acidic for weak bases.
For weak acids and bases, the plateaus are called buffer areas, and in this PH range, both the acid and conjugate base coexist. At the same time, and also for weak electrolytes, the PH in the half-point corresponds to the $pK$ value of the acid or base.

