In a liquid the are two types of molecules, based on their location. Some molecules are located in the interior part of the liquid, far away from its surface. We call this the bulk of the liquid. Others are located at the surface of the liquid. The molecules at the bulk are surrounded by other molecules in all directions, being pushed and pulled in all directions by intermolecular forces. For these molecules, overall there is no net pull in any direction. Differently, surface molecules because of their location are surrounded by fewer molecules located on the bottom part of the surface. As such, they are pushed and pulled down and to the side by the surrounding molecules, but not upwards. As a result of this imbalance, surface molecules experience elastic forces that cause the surface of the liquid to tighten up so that the surface minimizes its surface area. The surface tension of a liquid ($\gamma_t$) is a measure of these elastic forces in the surface of the liquid. It is defined as the amount of energy needed to modify the surface of a liquid by the unit of area, with units of milli Newton per meter, mN/m.
Surface tension values depend on the temperature and the phases in contact. For example, let us consider three different phases: water (a liquid), air (a gas), and mercury (a liquid). The surface tension of water in the water-air interface is different than the value for the water-mercury interface as the chemicals in contact with water are different. The stronger the intermolecular forces connecting the molecules of a given phase, the higher the surface energy--it would take more energy to modify, expand or contract, the surface of the liquid. For example, the surface tension of the \ce{H2O}-air interface (73mN/m)
is stronger than the one for the \ce{C6H6}-air interface (29mN/m), as water molecules interact by means of strong hydrogen bonds whereas the only intermolecular forces existing among the \ce{C6H6} are weak dispersion forces. The surface tension is responsible for phenomena such as capillary, the beading of water on the plant's leaves--water form beads or drops on the top of leaves--or the formation of the meniscus, a curved surface of a liquid in a narrow tube. In particular, capillary results from the competitive effect of cohesive and adhesive forces. In the case of mercury, the cohesive forces are stronger than the adhesive. Hence, the meniscus created is convex. In the case of water, the adhesive forces are stronger, and therefore this liquid forms a concave meniscus.

